viewers are warned that the following
program contains flashing images
apologies to make well everybody has a
past and and ever since jon favreau said
let's think about Tony like he's a guy
that you could run into at a restaurant
in Brentwood
what would he really be like what's his
history and so Shane black in His
infinite clever wisdom said why don't we
set something into effect from his past
honestly there's a hundred people who
want to kill me we didn't want to do an
episode environment it's easy to look at
number three after something and just do
an episode of it you know in the same
sense that television every week it's
not the most important thing that ever
happened to those characters because
they gotta be back again so Ironman
wanted to say well we want to make it
kind of a game-changer in a sense it has
to be something important enough that it
represents a major event in the life of
Tony Stark nothing's been the same since
New York experienced things and then
they're over you kicked this film off
with Tony really dealing with you know
what would probably happen to a person
who had gone through the experience that
they've gone with in the Avengers seeing
the sky open up and you know
interplanetary bad guys coming in how
does that really you know I think you
probably have a bit of post-traumatic
stress disorder afterwards I can't sleep
and when I do I have nightmares Tony's
very traumatized by what's happened at
the end of the Avengers he's not very
present in his relationship and he's
having nightmares and he's not sleeping
kind of going what just happened what
does that mean I guess I better prepare
for any eventualities it's time to start
tweaking in my workshop I hope I can
protect the one thing I can't live
without this setup and certainly the
ramifications on Tony Stark's character
and him having to confront things and go
places after already having saved the
world a couple of times great it's an
interesting challenge if from the first
Ironman were like okay we got to have
this phobia the the Mandarin and we're
like no you know what we think instead
we're gonna have Obadiah turn around and
then the second time we're like all
right we got to bring in the Mandarin
they're like no we're kind of thinking
it's a guy all right and then an Avenger
so I was like well let's get everyone
together against the Mandarin so things
happen when they're supposed to for a
reason some people call me a terrorist
I consider myself a teacher the Mandarin
is this sort of uber terrorist who is a
cobbled version of every man's terrorist
the things that were most afraid of
assembled it to one sort of tangible
form lesson number one heroes there is
no such thing he is what would one would
call a homegrown threat he uses perfect
American English his Tamra is that of
American Midwest preacher our model was
sort of Colonel Kurtz in a way from
Apocalypse Now someone who at one point
was a soldier of indeterminate
nationality but when little nuts out in
the field surrounded himself with
warfare and his sole unifying focus
became this hatred of America Jarvis
where's my flight power working on it
sir this is a prototype
nice trip Tony Stark of some of the
things that make him comfortable that we
absolutely place him outside any kind of
comfort zone he's established so take
away the armor take away the house take
away the things which make him easily
a superhero and reduce him to the man
that has to think on his feet and sort
of cobble together things in order to
survive so that you do deal that is
heart with with very tender human values
loss friendship comradeship love
disappointment loss of Direction loss of
self a mind the suit by the man in the
suit
and it reminds me of some of the comics
too you know that I remember reading
where just because you were going from
cell-to-cell you could set it wherever
you want and the success of the Avengers
made it that we could kind of be a
little bit nonlinear in the storytelling
and I think it's really effective I
really feel by the end of the movie that
it's about transcending his need to
identify himself with all of this
outside stuff which I think again brings
him back to a cooler version of who he
was when we met him five years ago how
many in the air Jarvis 13
how many can I carry four oh boy
you